Telco profiles examples (#82)
suse-edge/misc: telco-examples/edge-clusters/README.md

# Edge clusters for Telco

## Introduction

This is an example to demonstrate how to deploy an edge cluster for Telco using SUSE ATIP and the Zero Touch Provisioning workflow.

There are two steps to deploy an edge cluster:

- Create the image for the edge cluster using the Edge Image Builder in order to prepare all the packages dependencies and the requirements for the edge cluster.
- Deploy the edge cluster using metal3 and the image created in the previous step.

Important notes:

* In the following examples, we will assume that the management cluster is already deployed and running. If you want to deploy the management cluster, please refer to the [Management Cluster example](../mgmt-cluster/README.md).

> * In the following examples, we are assuming that the edge cluster will be Baremetal Servers. If you want to deploy the full workflow using virtual machines, please refer to the [metal3-demo repo](https://github.com/suse-edge/metal3-demo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the following examples, we are assuming that the edge cluster will use baremetal servers. If you want to deploy the full workflow using virtual machines, please refer to the [metal3-demo repo](https://github.com/suse-edge/metal3-demo)
```

Author: changed

### Example 1 - Deploy a single-node Edge Cluster with the image generated and Telco profiles

There are 2 steps to deploy a single-node edge cluster:

- Enroll the new Baremetal host in the management cluster.
- Provision the new host using the CAPI manifests and the image generated in the previous step.

#### Enroll the new Baremetal host

Using the folder `telco-examples/edge-telco-single-node`, we will create the components required to deploy a single-node edge cluster using the image generated in the previous step and the telco profiles configured.

The first step is to enroll the new Baremetal host in the management cluster. To do that, you need to modify the `bmh-example.yaml` file and replace the following with your values:

- `${BMC_USERNAME}` - The username for the BMC of the new Baremetal host.
- `${BMC_PASSWORD}` - The password for the BMC of the new Baremetal host.

> - `${BMC_MAC}` with the MAC address of the new Baremetal host to be used.
> - `${BMC_ADDRESS}` with the URL for the baremetal Host BMC. If you want to know more about the different options available depending on your hardware provider, please check the following [link](https://github.com/metal3-io/baremetal-operator/blob/main/docs/api.md).

Reviewer: Consistency suggestion:
```suggestion
- `${BMC_MAC}` - The MAC address of the new Baremetal host to be used.
- `${BMC_ADDRESS}` - The URL for the Baremetal host BMC. If you want to know more about the different options available depending on your hardware provider, please check the following [link](https://github.com/metal3-io/baremetal-operator/blob/main/docs/api.md).
```

Then, you need to apply the changes using the following command into the management cluster:

```
$ kubectl apply -f bmh-example.yaml
```

> The new Baremetal host will be enrolled changing the state from registering, inspecting and available. You could check the status using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new Baremetal host will be enrolled changing the state from registering to inspecting and available. You could check the status using the following command:
```

Author: thanks!

- `${SRIOV_DEVICE}` - The device of the SRIOV network device to be used (e.g `57c1` which means the FEC acc card. You can get that info using `lspci` command with grep to find the vendors and device codes). For more information, please check the following [link](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/sriov-network-device-plugin#configurations)
- `${SRIOV_NET_INTERFACE}` - The network interface to be used for the SRIOV network device (e.g `eth0` which means the first network interface in the server. You can get that info using `ip link` command to list the network interfaces).
- `${ISOLATED_CPU_CORES}` - The isolated CPU cores to be used for workloads pinning some specific cpu cores. You could get that info using `lscpu` command to list the CPU cores and then, select the cores to be used for the edge cluster in case you need cpu pinning for your workloads. For example, `1-18,21-38` could be used for the isolated cores.
- `${NON-ISOLATED_CPU_CORES}` - The cores listed could be used shared for the rest of the process running on the edge cluster. For example, `0,20,21,39` could be used for the non-isolated cores.

> - `${CPU_FREQUENCY}` - The frequency to be used for the CPU cores. For example, `2500000` represent 2.5Ghz configuration and it could be used to set the CPU cores to the max performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `${CPU_FREQUENCY}` - The frequency to be used for the CPU cores. For example, `2500000` represents 2.5Ghz configuration and it could be used to set the CPU cores to the max performance.
```

Author: Thanks !!!

> - `${DPDK_PCI_ADDRESS}` - This the pci device to be used for the DPDK configuration. You could get that info using `lspci` command to list the PCI devices and then, select the device to be used for the DPDK configuration. For example, `0000:00:1f.6` could be used for the DPDK configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `${DPDK_PCI_ADDRESS}` - The PCI device to be used for the DPDK configuration. You could get that info using `lspci` command to list the PCI devices and then selecting the device to be used for the DPDK configuration. For example, `0000:00:1f.6` could be used for the DPDK configuration.
```

> - `${RKE2_VERSION}` - The RKE2 version to be used for the edge cluster. For example, `v1.28.3-rc4+rke2r1` could be used for the edge cluster.

Reviewer: I think it's a better idea to use an official version and not an RC.
```suggestion
- `${RKE2_VERSION}` - The RKE2 version to be used for the edge cluster. For example, `v1.28.3+rke2r1` could be used for the edge cluster.
```

> You can also modify any other parameter in the `telco-capi-single-node.yaml` file to match with your requirements, like the dpdk configuration, number of VFs to generate, number of SRIOV interfaces and so on. This is basically a template to be used for the edge cluster deployment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also modify any other parameter in the `telco-capi-single-node.yaml` file to match your requirements e.g. DPDK configuration, number of VFs to generate, number of SRIOV interfaces, etc. This is basically a template to be used for the edge cluster deployment. 
```

Then, you need to apply the changes using the following command into the management cluster:

```
$ kubectl apply -f telco-capi-single-node.yaml
```

### Example 2 - Deploy a multi-node HA cluster using metal3, metallb and the image generated

There are 2 steps to deploy a multi-node edge cluster:

- Enroll the 3 Baremetal hosts in the management cluster.
- Provision the new hosts using the CAPI manifests and the image generated in the previous step.

#### Enroll the new Baremetal host

Using the folder `telco-examples/edge-metallb-multi-node`, we will create the components required to deploy a multi-node edge cluster with 3 control-plane replicas, using the image generated in the previous step and metallb as a load balancer.

The first step is to enroll the new Baremetal hosts in the management cluster. To do that, you need to modify the `bmh-node1-example.yaml` file and replace the following with your values:

- `${BMC_NODE1_USERNAME}` - The username for the BMC of the first Baremetal host.
- `${BMC_NODE1_PASSWORD}` - The password for the BMC of the first Baremetal host.

> - `${BMC_NODE1_MAC}` with the MAC address of the first Baremetal host to be used.
> - `${BMC_NODE1_ADDRESS}` with the URL for the first baremetal Host BMC. If you want to know more about the different options available depending on your hardware provider, please check the following [link](https://github.com/metal3-io/baremetal-operator/blob/main/docs/api.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `${BMC_NODE1_MAC}` - The MAC address of the first Baremetal host to be used.
- `${BMC_NODE1_ADDRESS}` - The URL for the first Baremetal host BMC. If you want to know more about the different options available depending on your hardware provider, please check the following [link](https://github.com/metal3-io/baremetal-operator/blob/main/docs/api.md).
```

You need to replace the same variables (change the values respectively) for the second and third Baremetal hosts in the `bmh-node2-example.yaml` and `bmh-node3-example.yaml` files.

Then, you need to apply the changes using the following command into the management cluster:

```
$ kubectl apply -f bmh-node1-example.yaml 
$ kubectl apply -f bmh-node2-example.yaml 
$ kubectl apply -f bmh-node3-example.yaml
```

> The new Baremetal hosts will be enrolled changing the state from registering, inspecting and available. You could check the status using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new Baremetal hosts will be enrolled changing the state from registering to inspecting and available. You could check the status using the following command:
```

``` 
$ kubectl get bmh -owide
```

#### Provision the new hosts using the CAPI manifests and the image generated

Once the new Baremetal hosts are available, you need to provision the new hosts using the CAPI manifests and the image generated in the previous step.

The first thing is to modify the `telco-capi-metallb-multi-node.yaml` file and replace the following with your values:

- `${EDGE_VIP_ADDRESS}` - The IP address to be used as a endpoint for the edge cluster (should be the VIP address reserved previously).

> - `${RKE2_VERSION}` - The RKE2 version to be used for the edge cluster. For example, `v1.28.3-rc4+rke2r1` could be used for the edge cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `${RKE2_VERSION}` - The RKE2 version to be used for the edge cluster. For example, `v1.28.3+rke2r1` could be used for the edge cluster.
```
